2023, June the 30th - 13:00 to 15:00 UTC

### Attendees
Brad De Young, Pierre Testor, Charitha Pattiaratchi, Louise Biddle, Robert Todd, Dave Hebert, Filipa Carvalho, Grace Saba, Victor Turpin

# Agenda
* Annual Report from Task Team
    * [Storm](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1GGFViXT4DrPF1y50Gn5ayI4uvPo-eYkd/view?usp=drive_link)
    * [Boundary Current](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1tF9zZUbOEAZtxfGjXFwYDQwv0nkU7iO0/view?usp=drive_link)
    * [Data management](https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/meeting_notes/blob/main/2023/OGCalForTaskTeamReviewJune2023.md)
    * [Ocean Health and Ecosystems](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tGG34veMCJot55QY8VoZiP8Gd0gKQGU3/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=102607847252700671759&rtpof=true&sd=true)
    * Best practices
    * Water transformation
    * What do we do with the status report and membership?

* Call for Task Team
    * Review of the proposals
        * [Passive Accoustic Monitoring](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1t2KzWzQbxy8Da4AuzuZlrCNURrFKOdWJ/view?usp=drive_link)
        * [Data Assimilation](https://drive.google.com/file/d/17bXYpCv4HJe7g_KCUH1IrzMuJxTryEOi/view?usp=drive_link) 
        * [Glider in the polar regions](https://drive.google.com/file/d/18GWTSe1GEGgv4eFEkcHnygKpS_u6bEAo/view?usp=drive_link)
    * Set step 2 details
        * For new task team
        * For existing task teams
            * Governance, membership and reporting
            * Targets and monitoring capacity

* Next OCG Exec call: Exploring Opportunities for Hosting Emerging Networks in July 2023
    * The case of OASIS: [see website](https://airseaobs.org/)
* Status of the International Glider meeting in Europe
    * [Oceangliders event]([https://www.oceangliders.org/events/)
    * Coordination with UG2
        * Join statement to explain how OG, UG2 an EuroGOOS GTT worked together.
        * What would be a good international meeting pace?
* Review of the actions
    * See below

# Actions
[list of ongoing actions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WJ5Q_oTLTUjmutnGOoJUVJ1HLmN7jrI_iQ2VkMK2ipU/edit?usp=sharing)

## New actions

* Action 1: Share credential to edit website to TT chairs (Victor)
* Action 2: Update the description of each task team on the website (TT leaders)
* Action 3: DM TT: update ToR and implementation plan to include priorities (DM TT chairs)
* Action 4: OHE TT: Change chairs and update ToR and implementation plan (OHE TT Chairs)
* Action 5: BP TT: Seek support to produce OG BP document (BP TT chairs)
* Action 6: Remove water transformation task team from website or deprecate
* Action 7: Engage with new TT (Victor)
* Action 8: Work on a join statement with UG2, EGO, EuroGOOS GTT and OceanGliders (OG chairs, Victor)
* Action 9: Set a date for next meeting (Victor)

# Meeting Notes
## Review of the TT
### Storm
The storms task team has extended its scope to "extreme events". The new description and membership of the task team has been transmitted and the website should be updated accordingly.

### BOON
The BOON task team has updated its description and membership. Website should be updated accordingly. 
The BOON task team is currently working on implementing a capacity to monitor its activity through metadata management at DAC level and OceanOPS level.
The BOON task team is working to better define its frame and guide members in implementing a sustained monitoring of the BOON
OceanGliders BOON will be a network of network. BOON will also connect with other platforms engaged in the monitoring of the Boundaries.

### Data Management.
Adam Comeau and Anh Tran are new members of the Data management task team representing OceanGliders Canada. 
New chair is being choosen for the TT.
Priorities of the TT is: 
1) implementation of OG1.0 including define guidance on reprocessing. and 
2) Delayed mode review and plan
3) Provide new ToR

### Ocean Health and Ecosystem
Priorities are:
1) Change of chair to be confirmed.
3) SOP for O2 gliders data
4) redefine ToR and Task team targets

### Best practices
The OceanGliders best practices document is being written. Support is requested by Pierre Testor to finalize.
It is also requested to propose a workshop on Github use to engage further the community with the tool. 
The next international glider meeting (9th EGO meeting) could be a place to provide such training.

### Water Transformation
It has been agreed that the task team will be removed from the website. The webpage will not be lost but hidden. Any volonteers to re-engage with this task team is welcome.


## Call for new TT
3 applications has been received.
* The Passive Accoustic Task team has been approved.
* The Data assimilation task team and the polar task team has been granted has "emerging" task team (following the GOOS terminology). Request to improve TT scope, team and objective should be send to the chairs. The TT should contact existing TT to work with them (BOON, Storms and DM in particular)
* The Polar task team has been granted has "emerging" task team. It is requested to develop clearer goal of the task team, the provided abstract was considered too generic at this stage, to better describe the activity of the Task Team and to assemble a larger team.
    * *They already answered to be part of the TT:* 
*Giuseppe Aulicino, IT - Pierpaolo Falco, IT - Vassilis Zervakis, GR - Craig Stevens NZ*
    * *They havenâ€™t answered yet: 
Karen Heywood, Sebastian Swart, Walker Smith, Mike Dinniman, Christopher Zappa, Bastien Queste and Marie Porter*


## Website
The credentials to edit the website will be transfered to the TT chairs.
The issue with the map is still pending. Investment is needed to implement live map.


## International Glider Conference - 9th EGO meeting
The meeting in June 2024 will offer space for trainings and workshops.
Every task team are encourage to push proposals to the meeting workshop and training sessions.

The agenda of the meeting will be based on the abstract received.
Again, every task team are encourage to push proposals to the meeting workshop and training sessions.

### Join statement to explain how OG, UG2 an EuroGOOS GTT worked together.
    
    Work on a text of a join statement between Glider communities
*Rational*
The glider communities are facing the difficulty to understand the complementarity and role of the different international or national glider groups.
OceanGliders, EGO, UG2, EuroGOOS Glider Task Team should work together to deliver a join statement establishing the role and goal of each entity.
    
    What would be a good international meeting pace?
    
*Rational:*
Regional glider communities and international glider community should meet without competing eachother.
Coordination is needed to facilitate planning and share work load
18 months is a good pace to gather community around a particular topic but too frequent to share scientific results
3 years is good for sciences as real progress has been made, but too long for community and capacity building.
The steering team agree on more frequent working meeting, less frequent science meeting

**meeting pace proposal:**
![proposal]([https://hackmd.io/_uploads/SyohdYb-a.png](https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/meeting_notes/blob/main/2023/meeting%20pace.png)https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/meeting_notes/blob/main/2023/meeting%20pace.png)
