### Attendees 

## agenda

*	Delayed glider meeting feedback (Robyn, Victor) 
*	UG2 meeting feedback (Jenn) 
*	AMRIT â€“ how to get involved and provide feedback on a glider metadata form (Victor, Emma)
*	Next steps for GDAC inclusion of OG1.0 file format? 
*	File format checker update (Gui)


## tickets

https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/OG-format-user-manual/issues/256
remove co-ordinates and update manual 

documentation netcdf3 reference - 
https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/OG-format-user-manual/issues/267

time reference - 
https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/OG-format-user-manual/issues/266



## previous actions 
* extra time channels in file format https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/OG-format-user-manual/issues/262
* vocab actions will be discussed in seperate meetings 
* SOP leads
* open source toolings
