2024, Jan the 30th - 14:00 to 16:00 UTC

### Attendees
Brad De Young, Pierre Testor, Robert Todd, Dave Hebert, Filipa Carvalho, Ali Aydogdu, Elisabeth Remy, Ilker Fer, Craig Lee, Dan Hayes, Emma Heslop, Pierre Cauchy, Denise Rich, Yumi Song, Yanhui Wang, Elena Mauri, David Hebert, Victor Turpin

# Agenda
* Welcome to new members and logistics
* OceanGliders extension to Asia
* Status of the financial support to technical coordination
* Overview of the program in 2023 – 5 min
    * Status of the Task Team 
    * Existing Task Team report
    * Focus on the New Task teams
* Data managenemnt topics
    * OG1.0 official release
    * Central repository vs distributed repository
* Status of the International Underwater Conference – 9th EGO meeting next year


# Actions
[list of ongoing actions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WJ5Q_oTLTUjmutnGOoJUVJ1HLmN7jrI_iQ2VkMK2ipU/edit?usp=sharing)

## New actions

* Action 1: Share call for Task Team  document to Pr. Yanhui Wang to consider the creation of the TT on mesoscale and multi gliders (Victor)
* Action 2: Contact with Yanhui Wang to get TJU deployment metadata (Victor, Yanhui)
* Action 3: 2023 - National report to Canada to be shared to David Hebert and Brad De Young (Victor)
* Action 4: The annoncement of OG1.0 release should be coordinated by GOOS to touch not only the community and the DACs but also the end users like data agregators (IODE, GRA e.g.), implication and impact should be assessed.  (Victor, Emma)
* Action 5: Suggest Callum Rollo to offer a github workshop at iugc2024 (Victor)
* Action 6: Data Assimilation TT should engage with "Event base task team" and "BOON Task Team" and "data management task team" to have representative/contact point in each of those (Ali, Victor)
* Action 7: Put OceanGliders logo HR accessible on the OceanGliders website (Victor) 
* Action 8: Collect presentation from presenters (Victor, Ali, Pierre, Yanhui) 
* Action 9: Set meeting with Polar, OG chairs and ST members to report about polar TT (Victor)
* Action 10: Set a date for next meeting (Victor) 

# Meeting Notes
Check the meeting slides [here](https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/meeting_notes/blob/main/2024/20243001-OGST_Jan2024.pdf).

## Welcome to new members and logistics
### Logistics
It has been agreed that we should align with Pacific working hours for the next virtual meeting.

### New members
The chairs of the new task teams were attending for the first time the steering team meeting. Warm welcome to:
* **Elizabeth Remy** (Mercartor Ocean International, France), Data assimilation TT co-chair
* **Ali Aydogdu** (CMCC, Italy), Data assimilation TT co-chair
* **Pierre Cauchy** (UQAR, Canada), Passive acoustic monitoring  TT co-chair.
* **Denise Rich** (SAMS, UK),  Passive acoustic monitoring  TT co-chair.
* **Pr Yanhui Wang** (TJU, China) also join the steering team as  Tianjin University glider group representative.

## OceanGliders extension to Asia
* Jan 2021, Engaging with more glider groups in Asia has been identified by the steering team as a priority for the program.
* June 2021, Pr. Park from KNU, Korea join the steering team. 
* 2022 – 2023, contact has been made between OceanOPS and the glider lab of the School of Mechanical engineering in Tianjin University. 
* Oct 2023, V. Turpin, has been invited to present OceanGliders, GOOS and WMO to Tianjin University, School of Mechanical engineering and meet with the glider group.
* Jan 2024, Pr. Wang Yanhui, Dean of the school of mechanical engineering, is joining the steering team.

See introduction of Pr. Yanhui Wang [here]().

Pr. Yanhui Wang suggested to create a task team " on observation of mesoscale vortices and other phenomena in multiple underwater gliders"  

The steering team suggest to send the recent call for task team to Pr. Yanhui Wang to enter the process of creating this task team. (action 1)
Pierre Testor recall that the water transformation task team existing in the past could also be reactivated.

The Tianjin University glider group also offer the possibily to host an international glider meeting in China. This proposal is very well received and will be considered by the steering team as a potential location for the next international meeting (after the one this year in Sweden).

It is recalled to the steering team members that being part of the OceanGliders steering team imply: 
* attending to the bi-annual streering team meetings
* sharing of metadata to OceanOPS (action 2)
* complying with GOOS data policy


## Status of the financial support to OceanOPS technical coordination

See this section in the [meeting slides](https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/meeting_notes/blob/main/2024/20243001-OGST_Jan2024.pdf).

To support OceanOPS services in this difficult time the steering team members are asked to identify potential source of funding of this activity.
The OceanGliders program is currently supported only by USA and was supported in the past by European project funding some coordination.


## Overview of the program in 2023
### Overview
The overview is accessible in the meeting slides [here](https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/meeting_notes/blob/main/2024/20243001-OGST_Jan2024.pdf).
The program is progresssing, the number of deployment is increasing every year.
It is identify that the number of deployment is not the best indicator to measure the activity. It is requested that number of days at sea is taken instead. This should be develop further at OceanOPS.
It has been also akcnowledge that SeaExplorer has made lots of effort to facilitate data and metadata integration in the OceanGliders program.
Canadian member of the steering team resquest a report about the Canadian contribution to the GOOS (action 3).

### BOON task team
The BOON task team meet few time this year to work on metadata and engage with glider operators in the boundaries.
A repository on the OceanGliders github has been created [see here](https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/BOON) to manage vocabulary and start discussion.
Note, the ABACUS line in the mediteranean will be maintain this year (2024)

### Best practices task team
The document is still on progress. Pierre Testor is seeking for support to finalize the best practices paper. Contact him pierre.testor@locean.ipsl.fr if interested.
The section on real time QC is particularly slow to progress.
Best practices TT is relying a lot on the github repository while the community is not very use to it.
Using the meeting in Sweden to train the community on Github could be a nice opportunity (action 5).

### Data Managment Task team
Emma Gardner is taking the role of Co-chair of the Task team.
Emma has played an important role in defining the OG1.0 format and has been involved in the OGDMTT since many years now. With 10 years of experience as a data manager at the NOC and a recent appointment as the Autonomous Platform Lead at the BODC, Emma brings a wealth of expertise to the position. In her new role, she will provide leadership and coordination for Argo, Gliders, and AUV (Autosub) platforms, in support of a more sustainable and unified approach to data management. 

To ensure a seamless transition, Dan Hayes (CSCS) will continue to serve as co-chair until the next international glider conference in June. We are actively seeking a volunteer to take on this role, and interested individuals are encouraged to reach out to Emma and Dan.

To kick off this new era, the OGDMTT is planning to organize a community discussion outlining priorities for the coming years and potentially identifying new ones. We also seek your support in participating in future working groups that will emerge from this discussion. To accommodate a broader international audience, we plan to host two similar sessions in different time zones. If you are interested in participating, please fill the pool: https://doodle.com/meeting/participate/id/e1VpBG3a


### Passive accoustic monitoring
See report  [here](https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/meeting_notes/blob/main/2024/PAM_TT_20240130.pdf).

### Data assimilation task team
See report [here](https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/meeting_notes/blob/main/2024/OG-DA-TT_ST_meeting_Jan_2024.pdf).
It is asked to the DATT to connect to event base TT, BOON TT and data management TT (action 6).


### Polar task team
**Naomi Krauzig** (Parthenope University, Italy), was not able to attend the meeting due to piloting emergencies. The status of the Polar task team is available [here](https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/meeting_notes/blob/main/2024/Task_team_polar_regions.pdf).
We need to set up a meeting with OceanGliders chairs, Polar chairs and any member of the steering team interested in the task team (action 10).


## Data managenemnt topics
### release of OG1.0
The official release is planned in the next months. 
Few items remain to be fixed shortly.
The annoncement will be made to reach operators and end users (data agregators, GRA, etc.). (action 4)
The assemssment of the impact on the DACs should be assess to define a clear timeline for implementation. 

### Central repository vs distributed repository
This discussion will occure within the data management team.


## Status of the International Underwater Conference – 9th EGO meeting next year
TT leader should encourage their members to submit abstract.
OceanGliders steering team members will in person in Sweden for next steering team meeting.
