# OceanGliders Steering Team meeting

# Date: June 30 2022, 8:30 - 10:30 UTC

Session chair: Brad De Young
Notes: Victor Turpin

# Participants
Victor Turpin (OceanOPS, France), Pierre Testor (LOCEAN, France), Yu Ting (IOC), Marie Porter (SAMS, UK), Robert Todd (WHOI), JongJin Park (), Charitha Pattiaratchi (UWA, Australia), Joe O'Callagan (NIWA, New Zeland), Filipa Carvalho (NOC, UK), Louise Biddle (VOTO, SWE), Dan Hayes (CSCS, Cyprus), Dave Hebert (DFO, Canada), Brad De Young (MUN, Canada)

# [Agenda](https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/meeting_notes/blob/main/2022/Steering_team_agenda_V3.pdf)
1) **Welcoming and round table**
    + New members presentation
    + Official announcement to the community

2) **Introduction to OceanGliders functioning**
	+ The task teams
	+ New task team / new activities in places
	+ The case of Boundary Current TT lead 
	+ Steering team meetings

3) **Discussion and validation of the steering team rotation rules**

4) **Improvement made in the monitoring of the program**
    + OG1.0
    + KPIs and maps
	
5) **The OceanGliders community repository on GitHub**
    + Presentation of the repo
    + Community engagement, support, training.

6) **Discuss the community meeting next year**
    + Set working group 
    + Communication agenda
    + Venue

7) **Other Priorities**
    + Task teams: targets, implementation plan
    + Website / communication (twitter)
    + Engage community contribution to OceanOPS
    + OceanGliders alignment with Ocean Decade actions.

# Meeting notes

# Round table and presentation of new members
*Below , the 2/3 sentances we will use in the newsletter to present the new members to the community*

1) Marie Porter is working at the scottish association for marine sciences (SAMS), and with gliders since about 10 years. Physical Oceanographer, she is focusing she is interested in the Arctic region (Barrent Sea), boundary and currents. She aims to encourage and promote long term sustained observation in the steering team.

2) Robert Todd, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (WHOI), USA. Robert Todd is a physical Oceanographer, working since 20 years with the gliders and studying the Gulf Stream region. Robert is also highly involved in the BOON task team and the UG2 community.

3) JongJin Park, Kyungpook National University (KNU, Korea is a Physical Oceanographer leading the Korean Ocean Center. JongJin Park is developing and implementing the Korea Underwater Glider Observing Network (KUGON) that will operate about 50 gliders in the next years. JongJin Park is particularly interested in the use of gliders to study Boundary regions and Typhoons in the voncinity of Korean peninsula. Technical develpment and optimizing operations are his areas of interest.

4) Filipa Carvalho, National Oceanographic Center (NOC), UK. Filipa Carvalho is working with gliders since 10 years. She is interested in the Bio-physical interaction in the upper ocean. Filipa Carvalho interest in the OceanGliders steering team is in the BGC sensors integration and maximizing the observations made by gliders (multiple variables) in order to bring ecosystem in the front line. Filipa Carvalho also want to encourage platform interoperability.

5) Louise Biddle, Voice of the Ocean (VOTO), SWE is working with gliders since about 10 years, mainly in the Southern Ocean and recently in the Baltic Sea. Louise would like to push the glider futher to the polar region, near or under the ice. She is also interested in the combination of the platforms together and aiming ot contribute in stiching the international community together.


***Action 1 : Make the annoncement of the new members to the OceanGliders community. (Use newsletter for this) (Victor T.) - Review the text by the new members.***


# Introduction to OceanGliders functioning

Before update on the task team, Brad call for new topics of interest to be added or to replace previous task teams.

    Update on the Task teams
The TT are oriented toward science (where the gliders are suited for) + 2 technical TT (BP and data management). Some task team have been here from the begining. There is potentially a need to renew it.

**Water Transformation** : Except of the definition, very little progress.
Difficulty to lead. Need support. No more candidate.

**Best Practices**: Rutgers EGO conference 2019 identify the need to elaborate litterature about OG BP. Meeting in May 2021 (under EuroSea H2020 project). Very successfull, lots of discussions and knwoledge production. Overview paper in progresse, late. 5 Standard Operating Practices (SOP) on O2, Salinity, Chla, Nitrate, Depth Average Current, One on data assembly center. Pushed on Github repository. 2 SOPs endorsed by GOOS. Published in Ocean Best Practicies system. BP is slow process. Endorsment by the OG community make a practice becoming the (current) best practices.
Brad: BP is realy important for the community. It shows/demonstrate the maturity of the program and an assessment criteria for the GOOS OCG.

**BOON**: Establish a global network of gliders. Target 2030 - 100 gliders lines/regions. Strong impact of COVID in term of dynamic of the TT. 2 pages description is available (), plus plans for the regions.
BOON = Boundary Ocean Observing Network, the role of glider to sample the Boundary currents. Part of OOPC Boundaries group. Alignement of BOON with UN Decade Co-Design.
Dan Rudnick left the OGST (OceanGliders Steering Team). Robert Todd agree to co-chair the TT with Craig Lee.
***Action: need to get re-organized on the front of BOON. Need to aggregate plan for each site. Victor, Robert and Craig organize a discussion on this aspect soon, including alignement with co-design.***

**OceanHealth and Ecosystems**: Recent (6 months ago) introductory meeting with people (Lead by Grace Saba). Need to follow up on this.
Coordination with Argo can be beneficial for BGC observation. There is common space between various networks on BGC sensors.
***Action : Filipa C. will engage with Grace S. to state about the TT. Victor T. will follow up on this to collect the information about the TT and report about status. Identify TT targets could be nice too***

**Storm Task Team** :
Gliders used to support observation under storms, and storm forecasting. The storm TT participate to the GOOS co-design for forecast cyclone.
***Action : Victor T., Chari P., Scott G., Need update on the TT. Most of the work is about the co-design exemplar. Lot activity happening in paralle of the TT. How can we agregate those together ? presentation available on line (GOOS co design website).***

**Data Management**: 
The progress on the harmonization of the format "OG1.0" is real but the official release is long to come. However, there is a good momentum and it should finalize soon. The format description is on Github [see repo here](https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/OG-format-user-manual)
The GTS format for glider "BUFR format", is being validated. [status of the discussion here.](https://github.com/wmo-im/BUFR4)
There is some momentum in the a action of harmonization of the QA/QC within the glider community that should be promoted within the community and displayed on Github.
***Action : Communicate official request from the OGST to release OG1.0 format.***
*Data Policy*
The data policy of OceanGliders should be clarified amongst the community.
***Action : Deliver a clear statement on the program data policy.***

    New Task Team
Brad De Young pointed out the "need" of renewing some Task Teams that has been created in the early stage of OceanGliders.
New task team have been quickly discussed : 
- Sensor and BGC TT (Alignment with Argo)
- Data assimilation community - OceanPredict, Coast predict.

Task teams can be created and membership and chairing of the existing one can be renewed.
New members of the OGST are encouraged to think of new task teams or contribution to existing ones.

    Steering team meeting
OGST will meet two times a year. In January and June. Two Newsletter are expected each year. In April/May and September/October.

    Newsleter Sept 2022
+ OGST new members
+ Governance rules
+ Github community repository
+ OG1.0 (agenda, repo)
+ The monitoring tools for the OceanGliders program
+ Call for task teams


# Discussion and validation of the steering team governance rules
The recent [call for nomination](https://www.oceangliders.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/Ocean-Gliders-Steering-Committee-Solicitation.pdf) highlited the lack of clear governance rules to enter the Steering team of OceanGliders and chairs nomination. We have taken the opportunity of this call to edit/clarify a set of rule for the program.
The rules should be reviewed by a dedicated group and validated by the steering team.
Google doc is available [here.](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ClInNp1Ufcqu6O7tDZesLkcTa5mWhnmc_sYDTFg_O2M/edit?usp=sharing)

When accepted by the current steering team, the governance rule will be edited on Github repository.

***Action : engage with small team to review governance rules before ST endorsment.***

# Improvement made in the monitoring of the program
To monitor the progress made by the OceanGliders program on a regular basis, new tools and feature have been developed at OceanOPS.

It is requested by OceanGliders ST to review the tools (map and KPI) before official release.
**Action : set a small group of ST members to review maps and KPIs of the OceanGliders program**


# The OceanGliders Github repository

Louise Biddle emphasize the difficulty to move from individual experience on operation, Data management and data processing to standardize knowledge amongst the community.
Pierre Test pointed out that to make such knowledge sustain we need to converge toward shared knowledge. And Github seems to be a great tool for this. Two task teams have already invested a lot on Github and it is suggested to extend and promote the use of the [OceanGliders community Github repository.](https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity)

More activity is happening on OceanGliders Community on Github, this is how it is organize currently:

Presentation of the repository : https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity 

Data management:
+ https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/OG-format-user-manual
+ https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/Realtime-QC
+ https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/DataAssemblyCenter_SOP 

Standard Operating Procedures:
+ https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/Salinity_SOP 
+ https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/Oxygen_SOP
+ https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/Nitrate_SOP 
+ https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/Chla_SOP 
+ https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/DepthAverageCurrents_SOP

Communities’ engagement, support, training:
+ https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/OceanGliders/discussions/1 
+ https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/LearningGitHub
+ https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/meeting_notes 
+ https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/data_assimilation_practices

Community Tools:
+ https://github.com/vturpin/GliderTools 
+ https://github.com/c-proof/pyglider


***Action : report about usage of the OceanGliders Community repository in the next OGST meeting***


# Discuss the community meeting next year
    Community meeting background
• 2019 – New Jersey, USA
• 2016 – Southampton, UK, (creation of OceanGliders)
• 2014 – Keil, Germany
• 2011 – Telde, Spain
• 2009 – Larnaca, Cyprus

The scope of previous glider community meeting was broader than OceanGliders (sustained observations). Is this approach still on page ? Do we want to be "only OceanGliders" or bring a larger audience together (operation, model, AI).

Previous edition brought together 140 people at maximum.

    agenda

Pierre Testor pointed out that 1 year to prepare an international meeting is the minumum. Scientific community involvement and local support is absolutely need to engage in the organization of this even.
    
Fall of next year can be targeted.

Aligning with other community meeting: OceanPredict, Coastal predict, DITO, Argo could be a good way to decide on an agenda (and venue).
It would also be helpfull to have overlap with other partners to reduce carbon fooprint.
Hybrid format is mandatory.

    Venue

Brad De Young recall the status of previous discussions on this topic. The option of two paralleles meeting regionally at the same time. With synchronous sessions and asychronous session can/should be explore.

Charitha Pattiaratchi recall that the University of Western Australia option is still on the table. Recalling that cost will be based on single session or parallèle sessions.

PLOCAN option could be reactivated too.

    General discussion

Engaging with other communities seems to reach a consensus within the ST. The modelling community (OceanPredict, DITO, CoastPredict) and other observing community (Argo) have the ST preference.
Joe O'Callaghan will connect with OceanPredict ST members to see if there are room for an common action.

Filipa Carvalho pushed the idea of a 3 years community meeting, involving the "core" glider community (as it was in the past) and once a year engage some kind of side meeting day to interact with some communities. Pierre Testor supported this idea of a small meeting in 2023 and bigger one later.

Brad de Young suggested overlappings meeting with 3 days focusing on gliders and 2 days focusing gliders and "topic".
Pierre Testor recall that Part of the success of the meeting will be in the definition of the session, "data assimilation" can be one of those session.

***Action: set a working group within the community to progress toward the organization (in the broad sense) of the next "glider" community meeting***
*SubGroup*
+ Joe O’Callagan
+ Victor Turpin
+ Pierre Testor
+ Filipa Carvalho
+ Louise Biddle
+ JongJin Park
+ Brad DeYoung

# Other topics

    UG2 meeting:
Victor Turpin, on the behalf of Pierre Testor will presente BP WS OceanGliders.
Victor Turpin will have a slot to present OceanGliders and the progress on Data management.

    + Task teams: targets, implementation plan
    + Website / communication (twitter)
    + Engage community contribution to OceanOPS
    + OceanGliders alignment with Ocean Decade actions.
Gliders are engage in many UN decade actions/program/activities. There is a need to better coordinate and align the OceanGliders engagement in the UN Decade.
**Action : creation of a dedicated TT?**














