May 18 Tuesday
    15:30 - 16:00 CEST / 6:30 - 7:00 PDT  / 21:30 - 22:00 AWST
    Informal relaxed start and get together

    16:00 - 17:30 CEST / 7:00 - 8:30 PDT / 22:00 - 23:30 AWST
    Plenary: Linkage
    16:00 Introduction (5 min)
    
    16:05 Chapter sessions reports (15 min = 5 x 3 min)
    16:20 SOP sessions reports (9 min = 3 x 3 min)
    16:30 Random 4-5 people group discussions (5 min)
    16:35 Overview paper open discussion (25 min)
    17:00 break (simple break for coffee time or other)
    17:05 SOP open discussion (25 min)
    17:30 + Open exchange networking
=> https://spatial.chat/s/OceanGliders



Participants: Soeren Thomsen, Pierre Testor, Justin Buck, Gerasimi Anastasopoulou, Theodore Thompson, Alvaro Lorenzo-Lopez, Alice Pietri, Chari Pattiaratchi, Matthew Palmer, Anthony Bosse, Filipa Carvalho, Bastien Queste, Gillian Damerell, Nicole Waite, Estelle Dumont, Gui Castelao, Nikolaos D. Zarokanellos, Jack Barth, François Bourrin, Patricia Lopez-Garcia, JongJin Park, Yumi Song, Corentin Guyot,  Frédéric Cyr, Ilker Fer, Francisco dos Santos, Romain Tricarico, Nicolai von Oppeln-Bronikowski, John T Allen,  María Valladares, Kevin Martin, Lucas Merckelbach, Louis Clement, Evi Bourma, Tom Hull, Tania Morales,  please write down your name here


Meeting notes: please help taking notes collectively :)

Overview paper reporting (max. 3 min per group)

Chapter 1) Setting up a glider facility (Jack Barth)
matching the facility to the mission
local, regional or international?
budget and sustainability of facility
infrastructure for glider preparation and testing including IT
PEOPLE! are key
communication (glider to shore; communication to people and agencies to aid successful glider operations)
shipping, insurance, customs, topic
testing, how to get the field?
[request: more folks needed to step up and write down the prose to the sections]

Chapter ⅔) Pre-deployment / Operations (Josh Kohut)

Pre-deployment
highlights linkage between chapter 1/2/3
mission specific, what are the best practises with these missions
nice geographical distribution gave input, scientific and technical expertise were in the room
extended the document, added bullet points
something for the intro: a visual work plan 
vehicles itself
sensors themself, maintenance, data QC
planning mission
considerations to location to deployment
linkage to data management, how to document we this for the data management

Operations (Alvaro Lorenzo Lopez)
first explosion in length and content, Alvaro and Josh compressed it again
piloting
training is key
metadata 
post recovery activity activities
refers to near-real time QC, linkage neeed


Chapter 4) Real time QC (Gui Castelao)
fantastic groups, well represented, long term experience
a lot of documentations exists, a lot of overlaps, small differences
refers to another google drive where discussions have to been going on since months, Google Document work in progress , which content will be moved back to the main official document (from Qqchat) to make it easier for more people to comment and coordinate with other teams.
differences will be there, no need to do exactly the same thing. The goal of this document is to cover the similarities.
example: QC flags standard, there are differences 
When RTQC job finish and start DMQC? Do we have a ”near” real time QC for gliders?
talk about details is happening

Chapter 5) DM QC (Pierre Testor)
fantastic group as well ;)
chapters is covering already most variables
15 pages a bit long
if too many specifics are mention we should thing of starting a SOP process
coordinate with RTQC, for now a lot on methods less on QC
we don’t talk about metadata for now but refers to Data Management chapter
how to fly a glider with Micro Structure probe 
Can we combine PAR with Satlantic downwelling light sensors ?

next steps, we need  to work on the variable subchapters and idendify editor leads to reduce, unique languages etc is needed (before September)



Chapter 6) Data management (Victor Turpin)
document how to submit data to OceanGliders for two target groups (1 newcomers, 2) experienced users)
want to get feedback to the document from the community to see whether it is useful, clear etc
each DAC (data assembly center) is drafting a 1 page document, each data center will refer to their data management “SOP”
GOAL: deliver clear guideline how to submit data


------------------------------------------

Ocean Currents SOP reporting (Alice Pietri, Anthony Bosse, Robert Todd)

structure is different, indirect measurement, some kind of a challenge for structure
introduction explaining what Depth Average Currents (DAC) are
welcome key references, section where people can add literature
will describe how different platforms are calculating DACs, there are differences
different (level of complexity) flight models will be described
limitations will also be covered
welcome more input of people
Wednesday May 19, 16:00 CEST next session




Oxygen SOP reporting (Patricia Lopez, Tom Hull, Soeren Thomsen)
 General:
Overview paper: How will RT and DM QC chapters align? There is a good chunk of DMQC can also actually be RT
SOP: Real Time QC is the weakest part at the moment
Integration
inputs and examples (e.g in integration with gliders. This will be a very visual part and should include previous experiences)
Sensors
info from other sensors: if people have experience with other sensors, it will be great if they can start filling in the sections where there is a difference between Aanderaa and the Sensor?  For example, the 0 and 100% calibration is the same for optodes and electrodes? (when I worked with electrodes, they consume oxygen, so you need bigger water containers and moving the sensor a lot, etc..)
Specific regions/ O2 distribution settings
Add a part for Oxygen Minimum Zone, how to work there (i.e. STOX sensor for validation needed?)
Data management / dissimilation 
more input into delivering the oxygen data to repositories yet ...

Nitrate SOP reporting (

new session on Friday May 21 16:00 CEST, please join if you work with nitrate or other nutrients
Gerd: Key gap is basically only input from all (!) other SUNA (or other Nitrate sensor) users.
So far we are only GEOMAR (SUNA) and NOC/Plymouth  (Lab-on-Chip).
We need other views !!!



Discussion
author list

Victor: how should we connect linkages in the document, strong connection with RTQC, Do we need and overlap session, 
Pierre: Refers to leads of chapters, if something is written refer to, or merge etc
Victor: First draft and look for overlap afterwords
Chari: two way commenting/feedback process (Frontiers) and community feedback, when? How?
Pierre: suggestion: i.e. publish on OceanGliders website for community input (<6 months), submission to Frontiers after
Chari: refers to word limit of Frontiers, 
Soeren: refers to earlier discussions between Emma and Johannes, 
Chari: is editor of Frontiers, it is software related
Justin: refers to Frontiers review process which allows extension of word limit
Pierre: how to open feedback of chapters to broader audience before global community input
Pierre: send out email to all workshop participants 
Matthew Palmer: refers that numbers have been limited to keep things under control
Soeren: 60 new people joined in the last weeks
Soeren: Asia has to be better represented, but suggest to not have two step community review but just one global call
Victor: For Data Management team timeline is realistic, better to not have too much time to not lose the momentum (Justin agrees)
Charitha Pattiaratchi to Everyone (4:57 PM)
5 months 15 pages = 3 pages per month or < 1 page per week
Jack: timeline is realistic, shares Matthews view
Josh + Alvaro + Cat: Agree on timeline

5 min break!

Discussion SOPs

Alice: asks for timeline
Alice: living document
Gillian: refers to new papers, new platform etc
Pierre: refers to Frontiers update process
Alice: ask 
Bastien: refers to value of version control, ask for OceanGliders GitHub repo
Gui: learning factor, important to offer training
Matthew: 
Bastien: pro GitHub idea but consider, need a full time editor, who is responsible the whole process
Gui: group of editors, who is a mentor, there are clear rules
https://github.com/cf-convention/cf-conventions/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
Matthew: refers to OceanGliders TT
Victor: 

Gui Castelao to Everyone (5:26 PM)
Another important discussion, probably not for here, would be on the format to follow. We would lose the traditional multiple hands at same time and comment directly on the text, but we would operate in a different way. Soeren: it will be more organized, more sustainable

Tom: @Gui, Luckily I think this is much less of an issue once the document has been drafted.
Bastien Queste: Agreed - this can be outlined early on, defining the conventions for the Ocean Gliders Best practices.

Gui: A technical discussion for later. LaTeX, ASCIIDoc, RST, MD, ....
 https://spatial.chat/s/OceanGliders
