# Plenary 03

## Agenda - May 25 Tuesday
- 15:30 - 16:00 CEST / 6:30 - 7:00 PDT  / 21:30 - 22:00 AWST
- Informal relaxed start and get together

- 16:00 - 17:30 CEST / 7:00 - 8:30 PDT / 22:00 - 23:30 AWST
- Plenary: Closing 

- Outlook / Next Steps / Deadlines (Pierre Testor, Matthew Palmer, Emma Heslop,  Soeren Thomsen)
 
- Open Questions / Feedback

    


## Participants: 
Pierre Testor, Soeren Thomsen, Emma Heslop, Yumi Song, Gerd Krahmann, Filipa Carvalho, Josh Kohut, Thomas Ryan-Keogh, Miguel Charcos, Estelle Dumont, Victor Turpin, Jack Barth, Matthew Palmer, Tom Hull,Guilherme Castelao, Alice Pietri , Joaquín Tintoré, Gillian Damerell, Lucas Merckelbach ,Nikolaos Zarokanellos, Johannes Karstensen, JongJin Park  please write down your name here


## Meeting notes: 
Pierre Testor gives presentation: with timeline
Short Reporting by chapter leads:
Emma: Might be nice to reconvene and at least present the final paper ready for the community review…
Joaquín Tintoré (SOCIB) to Jack and all: we will be happy to collaborate on this chapter from SOCIB experience setting up a Glider Facility ! 
Josh: chapter ⅔ - merged to a single chapter, name still TBD 
Joaquin to Josh: happy also to bring SOCIB / Albert Miralles - onboard, checklists, etc… ! (from Josh:  Thank you!  SOCIB experience was identified as a clear valued resource in this topic!!)

Emma Heslop:
Remember we can also point out where there are gaps that need development of best practice in a best practice section

Emma: Could we put some of these resources - e.g. checklists on the OceanGliders website…?? (Pierre: Sure)

Soeren: Please contact DMQC chapter leads if you want to help to make subsections shorters
Tom: For oxygen i am happy to do that Soeren (Soeren: Thanks)

Josh: highlights link between overview paper and SOPs, example sensor integration.  Suggest including a block diagram of different topics covered in each chapter and how they are linked (Example in the Chapter ⅔ google doc).  SOPs provide valuable detail that can be referenced in the over paper (saving word count space) 

Victor: Data Management, outline of the document, relationship operators and PI, not approach data services, (10-20%), point to documents which are already available, Executed summary for best practice overview paper 
Justin: describes structure of detailed document, 
Emma: next months, in case teams need writing support how to contact (Soeren: happy if additional authors reach out to chapter leads, in case not clear who this is to soeren.thomsen@locean.ipsl.fr) 

Joaquín Tintoré_SOCIB:
We do have quite significant outreach activities @SOCIB, and we could contribute in the way it is found appropriate
Thanks for the suggestion Emma. I do think a section on Outreach and society is relevant today…
If I understood Pierre correctly this is a topic in the section Jack is coordinating, setting up a facility, so perhaps it could be discussed in that context and decided if integrated or worth calling out as a small section in the overview paper....? As you will connect with Jack anyway?
I do agree with you though on society connection - and links to tools etc would be useful to all… anyway perhaps some more discussion

Pierre: SOPs timeline, 

Oxygen (SOP): Tom: 80 % done, Spray/SeaBirds Sensor missing 
Nitrate (SOP): Gerd: 80-90 % so far only 2 groups view, reaches out to more 
OceanCurrents (SOP): 50 % of the information, happy to get more people supporting
Salinity (SOP): call will be organized, please tell Soeren, if you want to get involved into this effort soeren.thomsen@locean.ipsl.fr


Open Questions / Feedback

Question: Do we need a meeting in September 2021?

Use of glider data in assimilation and also in ocean reanalysis  - will this topic be discussed in the data SOP? (J. Karstensen), 
Soeren: Something to discuss, for now we just plan to add a section on how to do Real Time QC for each variable and how to submit to the DACs to ensure more data ends up there. 



